High in this video I'd like to do a quick recap of modules and what we've seen so far.
So modules can be imported and they can be imported using one of two ways.
The most common ways is to use the import statement but we can also use the import Madill function that's
in the import lib module.
Now when a module is imported a certain number of things happen fast the system cache is checked.
That's the system modules.
And if the object if the module that we're looking for is in the cache then that reference is return
immediately and know for the processing needs to happen.
Otherwise if it's not in the system modules then of course the module has to be located.
It has to be found somewhere.
And that's the role of the finders in Python.
And you can see some of the findings in this document a path once the module has been located.
It has to be retrieved.
It has to be loaded.
The code essentially has to be loaded up for that module.
And that's the role of the Lauder's and the Lowder's which loaded to be used is actually returned by
the finder.
So the finder returns an object model spec that basically tells Python Here's where you know here's
the loader that you need to use to load up the module the code for the module next step is that an empty
module type is created.
And then the reference to the module is added to the system cache.
So it's important to understand that the module that is created is added to the cache right away before
the code is actually compiled and executed.
And that's because of circular references because you could have for example module one load module
two inside that say maybe its first statement is import module.
And maybe the full statement inside module to his import module one.
So you have this kind of circular reference.
And by putting the empty module in the cache right away before you actually run any code it means that
the next time the import is hit if module one hasn't finished loading but somebody else something else
references it it's going to grab it out of cash.
Now sure will grab an empty object currently but it's still going to grab the correct model.
So that's just to avoid basically having an infinite kind of loop.
So the reference is added to the system cash Nessus modules and then the module is compiled operationally
and then the module is executed.
And this sets up the module's namespace when we execute the module the module's namespace is set up
with whatever you know is in the dictionary of the module that's the namespace and it's the same thing
as just calling module dot Global's.
So that function just returns the dictionary the reason why I say the module is compiled optional is
that some modules are already compiled when they get loaded up so they don't need to be recompiled that
phase of the load.
Doesn't have to be done.
So for module finders you'll find module finders inside the CIS that menopause for example will see
the built in importer's.
Now remember what we had said before.
An importer is basically an object that can both be a finder and a loader.
So it does both.
But in terms of the Metapad it's the finders.
So the importer is also a finder and therefore that's why it's in the Metapad.
And this one is done for built ins.
For example when we import Maff which is a built in it actually gets found by the built in importer.
We also have the frozen importer which finds frozen modules.
I'm not going to cover frozen modules in this course but basically you can think of a frozen module
as a self-contained application Python application that contains everything it needs to run including
the python runtime and the environment and the standard library and all that stuff on your own modules.
And it basically becomes this frozen module.
And so it's not really files which means that it's a different kind of Finder and important that needs
to be able to get things out of the frozen application.
And then the next one is called Pathfinder and that's by far probably the most common one after built
in importer because that's what we use to import our own modules.
For example as well as any modules in the standard library that are not built ins.
And so these are file based modules.
So for Pathfinder The question is when you're dealing with a file based model of where to find the modules
what to look for the modules.
It's not going to start you know looking at the root of all your drives and search there.
It's going to be limited in its search paths.
And so the search paths are basically defined inside sister path.
So it will start searching for modules insist that path.
But if you're importing a module from a package and will get to packages later than a package also has
this done the PAF property which basically sets up the root of that package.
Where is that package located.
It will also search inside that directory there.
So says the path for example I wrote a small application on my system and it was located here in my
home FMB my app.
And then you can see that there are other paths that get added there as well and depending on what libraries
you install in you know what modules and packages you've created you may have some extra stuff in here
but you'll always have your root directory of your actual program.
And then we see like for example this one user lib Python 3.6.
That's kind of an important one.
That's where the standard library stuff lives.
So remember those two because we'll see them again.
Home FMB my app and use a live Python 3.6.
So that's for example one set of paths where they import the file based import.
The Pathfinder will look if you're for example importing a module from collections the collections is
a mod as a package.
I should say and if you let's say right.
From collections import named topple.
It's going to find names topple in the path of this collections package because collections is a package.
So this is the donder paff property of collections.
It's inside 3.6.
But it's a directory inside 3.6 called collection's.
So when we do an import of named top or from collections it's going to look inside this directory and
we'll get two packages in a little while.
So let's take a look at some of the properties of modules and we'll start by importing a built in modules
so let's look at the built ins first.
And let's just import math.
So the type of math.
Well it's a module so math done the spec returns the module spec so it tells us the name of the module
which loads should be used to load up the module and the origin where that come from.
In this case it's a built in so it says built in the name of the module is half the package.
I'm showing you this because it will become important when we look at packages but it's an empty string
and a module is not a package unless it has done the package with some value in it.
And the other thing too that's different about the built ins and this is something that you know for
all the built ins and is reserved basically for the built ins.
Is this done the file property which tells us where the thing came from where the module came from.
Now done the file doesn't actually have to be a you know this based file.
It could be something else we saw when we wrote some modules ourselves and we were building the model
by actually generating code in a string.
We saw that we set our file to you know a string.
We said as Tiano string you know with some angle brackets.
But if it comes from disk usually you'll find in the location that origin inside the file built ins
however don't have that and that's reserved for their use.
We should always specify a dunder file.
If we write our own Lowder's next let's look at the standard library if we import let's say fractions
which is a module from the standard library.
Well the type of fractions is a module.
The module spec is again the loader here is source file loader the origin now has a specific location.
You'll notice that this US ad lib Python 3.6.
Remember what I said remember the paths from the CIS says path that path U.S.-South look Python 3:6
was in there.
And so it found fractions of p y in there.
It found this standard library implementation and it will use the source file loader to load it.
The name is Fraction's the package again is empty because Fraction's is not a package it's a module
and the file in this case is populated because this is coming from a file and it's telling us where
the code for that module is actually located on file and note that the file was actually found by Pathfinder's
so Pathfinder is the finder that that finally found the fractions in one of the paths listed insist
up path.
So it looks through those paths until it finds what it's looking for or it returns you know a module
not found exception so that path here was in says Dompierre.
Now what about a custom module.
I wrote a module module one and we import that for example while the type of that is also a module no
no change then no difference model spec you'll see it's also the source file loaded.
So the path finder found that model where did it find it.
Here in this location here Home FMB my app module one copy why the name is module one the package again
is MTA was a regular module not a package.
The file property is the location so that that origin that we have over here that's the file.
This is where the code is located.
So again the file was actually found by Pathfinder's in one of the paths listed insist that path.
Remember that home FMB my app was insist on path.
And so it found module one in that path so few notes python modules may reside in the built ins for
example they may be files on disk.
They can even be pre-compiled like Peewee's c files that can be frozen.
They can even be inside.
Our guys will take a look at that later.
And really they can be anywhere else that can be accessed by a finder and a loaded.
The only thing is that the Finder has to be able to find the module and the loader has to be able to
load the module.
So technically you can write custom finders and loaders and so you could find and load code from a database
over HTP and whatever else you want to write.
So for file based modules which is very kind of the most common one that we're going to use when we're
writing modules in python we just store them as files on the disk.
So Pathfinder is the one that's actually going to be used.
So the path must exist through the module muxed must exist in a path that is specified in one of two
locations either insist that path or if we're importing a module from inside a package then the packages
path will also be searched and we'll see packages in an upcoming video.
So if you want more information you can look at the Python docs.
There's two references here.
There are other ones out there as well.
And also look at Pepp 3 0 2 3 0 2 kind of goes through a lot of what I've talked about in more detail
and even talks about you know the finders and the loaders and the interfaces that have to be implemented
and so on.
It's not something you're going to use very often.
I mean do you really want to be loading your code from a database.
Probably not you're going to be writing a code on file and distributing it this way.
All right.
So thanks for watching and I'll see you in the next video.